User defined processing
=======================

The actinia process chain
-------------------------

Actinia provides the **process chain** approach to specify import,
processing and export of geodata using the actinia GRASS GIS processing
system. The process chain must be formulated in JSON. The processing is
always performed in an ephemeral database. The computational environment
is based on locations in the persistent database. If required, the
ephemeral database can be moved into the persistent user database, so
that the computational results can be used in further processing steps
or visualized using the actinia rendering REST calls.

The ephemeral database will be removed after computation. However, all
raster and vector data that was generated during the processing can be
exported using gdal/ogr specific datatypes and stored in an object
storage, outside the actinia environment. Within a process chain we have
read only access to all raster maps of the persistent database location
that is used as computational environment.

A process chain is a list of GRASS GIS modules[^1] that will be executed in
serial, based on the order of the list. GRASS GIS modules are specified
as process definitions[^2] that include the name of the command, the
inputs[^3] and outputs[^4], including import and export definitions as
well as the module flags.

The following example defines a single process
that runs the GRASS GIS module *r.slope.aspect*[^5] to compute the
*slope* for the raster map layer *elev\_ned\_30m* that is located in the
mapset[^6] *PERMANENT*. The output of the module is named
*elev\_ned\_30m\_slope* and should be exported as a GeoTiff file.

```json
 {
   "module": "r.slope.aspect",
   "id": "r_slope_aspect_1",
   "inputs": [
     {
       "param": "elevation",
       "value": "elev_ned_30m@PERMANENT"
     }
   ],
   "outputs": [
     {
       "export": {
         "format": "GTiff",
         "type": "raster"
       },
       "param": "slope",
       "value": "elev_ned_30m_slope"
     }
   ],
   "flags": "a"
 }
```

**Import and export**

The actinia process chain supports the specification of URL\'s to raster
layers in the input definition. The following process chain imports a
raster map layer that is located in an object storage with the name
*elev\_ned\_30m\_new* and sets the computational region for the
following processing step with the GRASS GIS module *g.region*[^7]. Then
slope and aspect are computed with *r.slope.aspect* and specified for
export as GeoTiff files.

```json
 {
   "list": [
     {
       "module": "g.region",
       "id": "g_region_1",
       "inputs": [
         {
           "import_descr": {
             "source": "https://storage.googleapis.com/graas-geodata/elev_ned_30m.tif",
             "type": "raster"
           },
           "param": "raster",
           "value": "elev_ned_30m_new"
         }
       ],
       "flags": "p"
     },
     {
       "module": "r.slope.aspect",
       "id": "r_slope_aspect_1",
       "inputs": [
         {
           "param": "elevation",
           "value": "elev_ned_30m_new"
         }
       ],
       "outputs": [
         {
           "export": {
             "format": "GTiff",
             "type": "raster"
           },
           "param": "slope",
           "value": "elev_ned_30m_new_slope"
         }
       ],
       "flags": "a"
     }
   ],
   "version": "1"
 }
```


**Output parsing**

Many GRASS GIS modules produce textual output in form of lists, tables
and key/value pairs. Actinia supports the analysis of this data and the
parsing and transformation in JSON accessible data. For each GRASS GIS
module the property \"stdout\" can be specified to transform the output
of the module into a list of values, a key/value list or a table.

The following options are available as format:

 -   \"kv\" parses the module output and creates key/value pairs
 -   \"list\" parses the module output and creates a list of values
 -   \"table\" parses the module output and creates a list of lists
     with values aka 2D array aka table

Additionally the unique id that will be used in the response process
result dictionary and the delimiter must be defined.

The following process chain demonstrates all available approaches, to
parse the stdout output of a module:

```json
 {
     "version": 1,
     "list": [
         {
             "id": "1",
             "module": "g.region",
             "inputs": [
                 {"param": "raster",
                  "value": "elevation@PERMANENT"},
                 {"param": "res",
                  "value": "5000"}
             ],
             "stdout": {"id": "region", "format": "kv", "delimiter": "="},
             "flags": "g"
         },
         {
             "id": "2",
             "module": "r.out.ascii",
             "inputs": [{"param": "input",
                         "value": "elevation@PERMANENT"},
                        {"param": "precision", "value": "0"}],
             "stdout": {"id": "elevation", "format": "table", "delimiter": " "},
             "flags": "h"
         },
         {
             "id": "3",
             "module": "g.list",
             "inputs": [{"param": "type",
                         "value": "raster"}],
             "stdout": {"id": "map_list", "format": "list", "delimiter": "\n"}
         },
         {
             "id": "4",
             "module": "r.univar",
             "inputs": [{"param": "map",
                         "value": "elevation@PERMANENT"}],
             "stdout": {"id": "stats", "format": "kv", "delimiter": "="},
             "flags": "g"
         },
         {
             "id": "5",
             "module": "r.univar",
             "inputs": [{"param": "map",
                         "value": "elevation@PERMANENT"},
                        {"param": "zones",
                         "value": "basin_50K@PERMANENT"},
                        {"param": "separator",
                         "value": "pipe"}],
             "stdout": {"id": "stats_zonal", "format": "table", "delimiter": "|"},
             "flags": "t"
         }
     ]
 }
```

The result of the process chain evaluation is the following JSON
response:

```json
 {
   "accept_datetime": "2018-06-28 14:11:03.439431",
   "accept_timestamp": 1530195063.439429,
   "api_info": {
     "endpoint": "asyncephemeralresource",
     "method": "POST",
     "path": "/api/v3/locations/nc_spm_08/processing_async",
     "request_url": "http://localhost/api/v3/locations/nc_spm_08/processing_async"
   },
   "datetime": "2018-06-28 14:11:03.878996",
   "http_code": 200,
   "message": "Processing successfully finished",
   "process_chain_list": [
     {
       "list": [
         {
           "flags": "g",
           "id": "1",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "param": "raster",
               "value": "elevation@PERMANENT"
             },
             {
               "param": "res",
               "value": "5000"
             }
           ],
           "module": "g.region",
           "stdout": {
             "delimiter": "=",
             "format": "kv",
             "id": "region"
           }
         },
         {
           "flags": "h",
           "id": "2",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "param": "input",
               "value": "elevation@PERMANENT"
             },
             {
               "param": "precision",
               "value": "0"
             }
           ],
           "module": "r.out.ascii",
           "stdout": {
             "delimiter": " ",
             "format": "table",
             "id": "elevation"
           }
         },
         {
           "id": "3",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "param": "type",
               "value": "raster"
             }
           ],
           "module": "g.list",
           "stdout": {
             "delimiter": "\n",
             "format": "list",
             "id": "map_list"
           }
         },
         {
           "flags": "g",
           "id": "4",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "param": "map",
               "value": "elevation@PERMANENT"
             }
           ],
           "module": "r.univar",
           "stdout": {
             "delimiter": "=",
             "format": "kv",
             "id": "stats"
           }
         },
         {
           "flags": "t",
           "id": "5",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "param": "map",
               "value": "elevation@PERMANENT"
             },
             {
               "param": "zones",
               "value": "basin_50K@PERMANENT"
             },
             {
               "param": "separator",
               "value": "pipe"
             }
           ],
           "module": "r.univar",
           "stdout": {
             "delimiter": "|",
             "format": "table",
             "id": "stats_zonal"
           }
         }
       ],
       "version": 1
     }
   ],
   "process_log": [
     {
       "executable": "g.region",
       "parameter": [
         "raster=elevation@PERMANENT",
         "res=5000",
         "-g"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.050546884536743164,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "projection=99\nzone=0\nn=228500\ns=215000\nw=630000\ne=645000\nnsres=4500\newres=5000\nrows=3\ncols=3\ncells=9\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.out.ascii",
       "parameter": [
         "input=elevation@PERMANENT",
         "precision=0",
         "-h"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05101513862609863,
       "stderr": [
         "0..33..66.."
       ],
       "stdout": "147 138 100 \n125 114 76 \n125 121 96 \n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "g.list",
       "parameter": [
         "type=raster"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05074191093444824,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "aspect\nbasin_50K\nboundary_county_500m\ncfactorbare_1m\ncfactorgrow_1m\nel_D782_6m\nel_D783_6m\nel_D792_6m\nel_D793_6m\nelev_lid792_1m\nelev_ned_30m\nelev_srtm_30m\nelev_state_500m\nelevation\nelevation_shade\nfacility\ngeology_30m\nlakes\nlandclass96\nlandcover_1m\nlanduse96_28m\nlsat7_2002_10\nlsat7_2002_20\nlsat7_2002_30\nlsat7_2002_40\nlsat7_2002_50\nlsat7_2002_61\nlsat7_2002_62\nlsat7_2002_70\nlsat7_2002_80\nncmask_500m\northo_2001_t792_1m\nroadsmajor\nslope\nsoilsID\nsoils_Kfactor\nstreams_derived\ntowns\nurban\nzipcodes\nzipcodes_dbl\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.univar",
       "parameter": [
         "map=elevation@PERMANENT",
         "-g"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05033302307128906,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "n=9\nnull_cells=0\ncells=9\nmin=75.9926223754883\nmax=147.101608276367\nrange=71.1089859008789\nmean=115.709356519911\nmean_of_abs=115.709356519911\nstddev=20.8179625939249\nvariance=433.387566562055\ncoeff_var=17.9915982769661\nsum=1041.3842086792\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.univar",
       "parameter": [
         "map=elevation@PERMANENT",
         "zones=basin_50K@PERMANENT",
         "separator=pipe",
         "-t"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05089259147644043,
       "stderr": [
         "0..33..66..100",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "zone|label|non_null_cells|null_cells|min|max|range|mean|mean_of_abs|stddev|variance|coeff_var|sum|sum_abs\n2||1|0|99.7889709472656|99.7889709472656|0|99.7889709472656|99.7889709472656|0|0|0|99.7889709472656|99.7889709472656\n8||1|0|137.68424987793|137.68424987793|0|137.68424987793|137.68424987793|0|0|0|137.68424987793|137.68424987793\n14||1|0|114.471084594727|114.471084594727|0|114.471084594727|114.471084594727|0|0|0|114.471084594727|114.471084594727\n16||1|0|75.9926223754883|75.9926223754883|0|75.9926223754883|75.9926223754883|0|0|0|75.9926223754883|75.9926223754883\n20||2|0|124.611175537109|125.171577453613|0.560401916503906|124.891376495361|124.891376495361|0.280200958251953|0.0785125770053128|0.224355729046161|249.782752990723|249.782752990723\n24||1|0|120.942115783691|120.942115783691|0|120.942115783691|120.942115783691|0|0|0|120.942115783691|120.942115783691\n"
     }
   ],
   "process_results": {
     "elevation": [
       [
         "147",
         "138",
         "100"
       ],
       [
         "125",
         "114",
         "76"
       ],
       [
         "125",
         "121",
         "96"
       ]
     ],
     "map_list": [
       "aspect",
       "basin_50K",
       "boundary_county_500m",
       "cfactorbare_1m",
       "cfactorgrow_1m",
       "el_D782_6m",
       "el_D783_6m",
       "el_D792_6m",
       "el_D793_6m",
       "elev_lid792_1m",
       "elev_ned_30m",
       "elev_srtm_30m",
       "elev_state_500m",
       "elevation",
       "elevation_shade",
       "facility",
       "geology_30m",
       "lakes",
       "landclass96",
       "landcover_1m",
       "landuse96_28m",
       "lsat7_2002_10",
       "lsat7_2002_20",
       "lsat7_2002_30",
       "lsat7_2002_40",
       "lsat7_2002_50",
       "lsat7_2002_61",
       "lsat7_2002_62",
       "lsat7_2002_70",
       "lsat7_2002_80",
       "ncmask_500m",
       "ortho_2001_t792_1m",
       "roadsmajor",
       "slope",
       "soilsID",
       "soils_Kfactor",
       "streams_derived",
       "towns",
       "urban",
       "zipcodes",
       "zipcodes_dbl"
     ],
     "region": {
       "cells": "9",
       "cols": "3",
       "e": "645000",
       "ewres": "5000",
       "n": "228500",
       "nsres": "4500",
       "projection": "99",
       "rows": "3",
       "s": "215000",
       "w": "630000",
       "zone": "0"
     },
     "stats": {
       "cells": "9",
       "coeff_var": "17.9915982769661",
       "max": "147.101608276367",
       "mean": "115.709356519911",
       "mean_of_abs": "115.709356519911",
       "min": "75.9926223754883",
       "n": "9",
       "null_cells": "0",
       "range": "71.1089859008789",
       "stddev": "20.8179625939249",
       "sum": "1041.3842086792",
       "variance": "433.387566562055"
     },
     "stats_zonal": [
       [
         "zone",
         "label",
         "non_null_cells",
         "null_cells",
         "min",
         "max",
         "range",
         "mean",
         "mean_of_abs",
         "stddev",
         "variance",
         "coeff_var",
         "sum",
         "sum_abs"
       ],
       [
         "2",
         "",
         "1",
         "0",
         "99.7889709472656",
         "99.7889709472656",
         "0",
         "99.7889709472656",
         "99.7889709472656",
         "0",
         "0",
         "0",
         "99.7889709472656",
         "99.7889709472656"
       ],
       [
         "8",
         "",
         "1",
         "0",
         "137.68424987793",
         "137.68424987793",
         "0",
         "137.68424987793",
         "137.68424987793",
         "0",
         "0",
         "0",
         "137.68424987793",
         "137.68424987793"
       ],
       [
         "14",
         "",
         "1",
         "0",
         "114.471084594727",
         "114.471084594727",
         "0",
         "114.471084594727",
         "114.471084594727",
         "0",
         "0",
         "0",
         "114.471084594727",
         "114.471084594727"
       ],
       [
         "16",
         "",
         "1",
         "0",
         "75.9926223754883",
         "75.9926223754883",
         "0",
         "75.9926223754883",
         "75.9926223754883",
         "0",
         "0",
         "0",
         "75.9926223754883",
         "75.9926223754883"
       ],
       [
         "20",
         "",
         "2",
         "0",
         "124.611175537109",
         "125.171577453613",
         "0.560401916503906",
         "124.891376495361",
         "124.891376495361",
         "0.280200958251953",
         "0.0785125770053128",
         "0.224355729046161",
         "249.782752990723",
         "249.782752990723"
       ],
       [
         "24",
         "",
         "1",
         "0",
         "120.942115783691",
         "120.942115783691",
         "0",
         "120.942115783691",
         "120.942115783691",
         "0",
         "0",
         "0",
         "120.942115783691",
         "120.942115783691"
       ]
     ]
   },
   "progress": {
     "num_of_steps": 5,
     "step": 5
   },
   "resource_id": "resource_id-f084adb6-53eb-42eb-abd1-ae2799a53561",
   "status": "finished",
   "time_delta": 0.4396040439605713,
   "timestamp": 1530195063.878975,
   "urls": {
     "resources": [],
     "status": "http://localhost/api/v3/resources/admin/resource_id-f084adb6-53eb-42eb-abd1-ae2799a53561"
   },
   "user_id": "admin"
 }
```

The result of the stdout output parsing for each module is located in
the \"process\_results\" section of the json response.

Sentinel-2A NDVI process chain
--

We will use the Unix shell and curl to access the REST API. First open a shell of choice (we use bash here) and setup the login information, the  IP address and the port on which the actinia service is running, so you can simply change the IP and port if your server uses a different
address:

```bash
export ACTINIA_URL=https://actinia.mundialis.de/latest
export AUTH='-u demouser:gu3st!pa55w0rd'
# other user credentials can be provided in the same way

We create a process chain that computes the NDVI from a Sentinel-2A
scene based on the bands 8 and 4 with the GRASS GIS module *r.mapcalc*. We
use the latitude/longitude location **latlong\_wgs84** as processing
environment and the computational region of sentinel band B04 for the
NDVI processing. Then we calculate univariate statistics for the
Sentinel-2A scene. The computed NDVI raster layer will be exported as
geotiff file that can be accessed via an URL.

The following JSON code has 6 process definitions:

 1.  Import of two bands (B04 and B08) of the Sentinel-2A scene
     *S2A\_MSIL1C\_20161206T030112\_N0204\_R032\_T50RKR\_20161206T030749*
 2.  Set the computational region to imported raster layer B04
 3.  Use *r.mapcalc* to compute the NDVI
 4.  Use *r.univar* to compute univariate statistics of the computed NDVI
     raster layer
 5.  Export the computed NDVI as GeoTiff

```json
 {
  "list": [{"id": "importer_1",
           "module": "importer",
           "inputs": [{"import_descr": {"source": "S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
                                        "type": "sentinel2",
                                        "sentinel_band": "B04"},
                       "param": "map",
                       "value": "B04"},
                      {"import_descr": {"source": "S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
                                        "type": "sentinel2",
                                        "sentinel_band": "B08"},
                       "param": "map",
                       "value": "B08"}]},
          {"id": "g_region_1",
           "module": "g.region",
           "inputs": [{"param": "raster",
                       "value": "B04"}],
           "flags": "g"},
          {"id": "rmapcalc_1",
           "module": "r.mapcalc",
           "inputs": [{"param": "expression",
                       "value": "NDVI = float((B08 - B04)/(B08 + B04))"}]},
          {"id": "r_univar_sentinel2",
           "module": "r.univar",
           "inputs": [{"param": "map",
                       "value": "NDVI"}],
           "flags": "g"},
          {"id": "exporter_1",
           "module": "exporter",
           "outputs": [{"export": {"type": "raster", "format": "GTiff"},
                        "param": "map",
                        "value": "NDVI"}]}
          ],
  "version": "1"
 }
```

Run the process chain asynchronously:

```bash
 JSON='{
 "list": [{"id": "importer_1",
           "module": "importer",
           "inputs": [{"import_descr": {"source": "S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
                                        "type": "sentinel2",
                                        "sentinel_band": "B04"},
                       "param": "map",
                       "value": "B04"},
                      {"import_descr": {"source": "S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
                                        "type": "sentinel2",
                                        "sentinel_band": "B08"},
                       "param": "map",
                       "value": "B08"}]},
          {"id": "g_region_1",
           "module": "g.region",
           "inputs": [{"param": "raster",
                       "value": "B04"}],
           "flags": "g"},
          {"id": "rmapcalc_1",
           "module": "r.mapcalc",
           "inputs": [{"param": "expression",
                       "value": "NDVI = float((B08 - B04)/(B08 + B04))"}]},
          {"id": "r_univar_sentinel2",
           "module": "r.univar",
           "inputs": [{"param": "map",
                       "value": "NDVI"}],
           "flags": "g"},
          {"id": "exporter_1",
           "module": "exporter",
           "outputs": [{"export": {"type": "raster", "format": "GTiff"},
                        "param": "map",
                        "value": "NDVI"}]}
          ],
 "version": "1"}'

curl ${AUTH} -X POST "${ACTINIA_URL}/locations/latlong_wgs84/processing_async_export" -H "accept: application/json" -H "content-type: application/json" -d "$JSON"
```

The response requires the polling of the status URL, since the API call
works asynchronously:

```json
 {
   "accept_datetime": "2018-05-02 21:05:34.873031",
   "accept_timestamp": 1525287934.8730297,
   "api_info": {
     "endpoint": "asyncephemeralexportresource",
     "method": "POST",
     "path": "/api/v3/locations/latlong_wgs84/processing_async_export",
     "request_url": "http://actinia.mundialis.de/api/v3/locations/latlong_wgs84/processing_async_export"
   },
   "datetime": "2018-05-02 21:05:34.873754",
   "http_code": 200,
   "message": "Resource accepted",
   "process_chain_list": [],
   "process_results": {},
   "resource_id": "resource_id-60f3f012-4220-46ec-9110-694df49006c4",
   "status": "accepted",
   "time_delta": 0.0007345676422119141,
   "timestamp": 1525287934.873754,
   "urls": {
     "resources": [],
     "status": "https://actinia.mundialis.de/api/v3/resources/demouser/resource_id-ff5a89da-82fe-4f13-9f35-8872c4d0ccf7"
   },
   "user_id": "demouser"
 }
```

Poll the status of the Sentinel-2A NDVI job and view the result of the
computation (remember to use your own resource-id):

```bash
 curl ${AUTH} -X GET "${ACTINIA_URL}/resources/demouser/resource_id-60f3f012-4220-46ec-9110-694df49006c4"
```

The finished response should look like this:

```json
 {
   "accept_datetime": "2018-05-02 21:05:34.873031",
   "accept_timestamp": 1525287934.8730297,
   "api_info": {
     "endpoint": "asyncephemeralexportresource",
     "method": "POST",
     "path": "/locations/latlong_wgs84/processing_async_export",
     "request_url": "http://actinia.mundialis.de/api/v3/locations/latlong_wgs84/processing_async_export"
   },
   "datetime": "2018-05-02 21:09:39.823857",
   "http_code": 200,
   "message": "Processing successfully finished",
   "process_chain_list": [
     {
       "list": [
         {
           "id": "importer_1",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "import_descr": {
                 "sentinel_band": "B04",
                 "source": "S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
                 "type": "sentinel2"
               },
               "param": "map",
               "value": "B04"
             },
             {
               "import_descr": {
                 "sentinel_band": "B08",
                 "source": "S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
                 "type": "sentinel2"
               },
               "param": "map",
               "value": "B08"
             }
           ],
           "module": "importer"
         },
         {
           "flags": "g",
           "id": "g_region_1",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "param": "raster",
               "value": "B04"
             }
           ],
           "module": "g.region"
         },
         {
           "id": "rmapcalc_1",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "param": "expression",
               "value": "NDVI = float((B08 - B04)/(B08 + B04))"
             }
           ],
           "module": "r.mapcalc"
         },
         {
           "flags": "g",
           "id": "r_univar_sentinel2",
           "inputs": [
             {
               "param": "map",
               "value": "NDVI"
             }
           ],
           "module": "r.univar"
         },
         {
           "id": "exporter_1",
           "module": "exporter",
           "outputs": [
             {
               "export": {
                 "format": "GTiff",
                 "type": "raster"
               },
               "param": "map",
               "value": "NDVI"
             }
           ]
         }
       ],
       "version": "1"
     }
   ],
   "process_log": [
     {
       "executable": "/usr/bin/wget",
       "parameter": [
         "-t5",
         "-c",
         "-q",
         "https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-public-data-sentinel-2/tiles/50/R/KR/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749.SAFE/GRANULE/L1C_T50RKR_A007608_20161206T030749/IMG_DATA/T50RKR_20161206T030112_B04.jp2"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 26.578389167785645,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "/bin/mv",
       "parameter": [
         "/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/T50RKR_20161206T030112_B04.jp2",
         "/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05015993118286133,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "v.import",
       "parameter": [
         "input=/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749.gml",
         "output=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
         "--q"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.150557279586792,
       "stderr": [
         "WARNING: Width for column fid set to 255 (was not specified by OGR), some strings may be truncated!",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "v.timestamp",
       "parameter": [
         "map=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
         "date=06 dec 2016 03:07:49"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05015850067138672,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "/usr/bin/gdal_translate",
       "parameter": [
         "-projwin",
         "113.949663",
         "28.011816",
         "115.082607",
         "27.001706",
         "-of",
         "vrt",
         "-projwin_srs",
         "EPSG:4326",
         "/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04",
         "/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04.vrt"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.050154685974121094,
       "stderr": [
         "Warning 1: Computed -srcwin 5 -225 10971 11419 falls partially outside raster extent. Going on however.",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "Input file size is 10980, 10980\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.import",
       "parameter": [
         "input=/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04.vrt",
         "output=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04_uncropped",
         "--q"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 47.980000257492065,
       "stderr": [
         "WARNING: Projection of dataset does not appear to match current location.",
         "",
         "Location PROJ_INFO is:",
         "name: WGS 84",
         "datum: wgs84",
         "ellps: wgs84",
         "proj: ll",
         "no_defs: defined",
         "",
         "Dataset PROJ_INFO is:",
         "name: WGS 84 / UTM zone 50N",
         "datum: wgs84",
         "ellps: wgs84",
         "proj: utm",
         "zone: 50",
         "no_defs: defined",
         "",
         "ERROR: proj",
         "",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "g.region",
       "parameter": [
         "align=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04_uncropped",
         "vector=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
         "-g"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05019974708557129,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "projection=3\nzone=0\nn=28.0118772817232\ns=27.0016255440191\nw=113.949598991944\ne=115.082625141434\nnsres=9.36719274644538e-05\newres=9.36694898718473e-05\nrows=10785\ncols=12096\ncells=130455360\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.mask",
       "parameter": [
         "vector=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 7.319561243057251,
       "stderr": [
         "Reading areas...",
         "0..100",
         "Writing raster map...",
         "0..3..6..9..12..15..18..21..24..27..30..33..36..39..42..45..48..51..54..57..60..63..66..69..72..75..78..81..84..87..90..93..96..99..100",
         "Reading areas...",
         "0..100",
         "Writing raster map...",
         "0..3..6..9..12..15..18..21..24..27..30..33..36..39..42..45..48..51..54..57..60..63..66..69..72..75..78..81..84..87..90..93..96..99..100",
         "Reading areas...",
         "0..100",
         "Writing raster map...",
         "0..3..6..9..12..15..18..21..24..27..30..33..36..39..42..45..48..51..54..57..60..63..66..69..72..75..78..81..84..87..90..93..96..99..100",
         "All subsequent raster operations will be limited to the MASK area. Removing or renaming raster map named 'MASK' will restore raster operations to normal.",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.mapcalc",
       "parameter": [
         "expression=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04 = float(S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04_uncropped)"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 11.935151815414429,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.timestamp",
       "parameter": [
         "map=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04",
         "date=06 dec 2016 03:07:49"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05023622512817383,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "g.remove",
       "parameter": [
         "type=raster",
         "name=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04_uncropped",
         "-f"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05019116401672363,
       "stderr": [
         "Removing raster <S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04_uncropped>",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.mask",
       "parameter": [
         "-r"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.10028839111328125,
       "stderr": [
         "Raster MASK removed",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "g.rename",
       "parameter": [
         "raster=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04,B04"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.0501711368560791,
       "stderr": [
         "Rename raster <S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B04> to <B04>",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "/usr/bin/wget",
       "parameter": [
         "-t5",
         "-c",
         "-q",
         "https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-public-data-sentinel-2/tiles/50/R/KR/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749.SAFE/GRANULE/L1C_T50RKR_A007608_20161206T030749/IMG_DATA/T50RKR_20161206T030112_B08.jp2"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 35.301382303237915,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "/bin/mv",
       "parameter": [
         "/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/T50RKR_20161206T030112_B08.jp2",
         "/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05019092559814453,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "v.import",
       "parameter": [
         "input=/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749.gml",
         "output=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
         "--q"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.1504042148590088,
       "stderr": [
         "WARNING: Vector map <S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749> already exists and will be overwritten",
         "WARNING: Width for column fid set to 255 (was not specified by OGR), some strings may be truncated!",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "v.timestamp",
       "parameter": [
         "map=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
         "date=06 dec 2016 03:07:49"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05019021034240723,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "/usr/bin/gdal_translate",
       "parameter": [
         "-projwin",
         "113.949663",
         "28.011816",
         "115.082607",
         "27.001706",
         "-of",
         "vrt",
         "-projwin_srs",
         "EPSG:4326",
         "/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08",
         "/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08.vrt"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05018925666809082,
       "stderr": [
         "Warning 1: Computed -srcwin 5 -225 10971 11419 falls partially outside raster extent. Going on however.",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "Input file size is 10980, 10980\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.import",
       "parameter": [
         "input=/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08.vrt",
         "output=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08_uncropped",
         "--q"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 46.33052468299866,
       "stderr": [
         "WARNING: Projection of dataset does not appear to match current location.",
         "",
         "Location PROJ_INFO is:",
         "name: WGS 84",
         "datum: wgs84",
         "ellps: wgs84",
         "proj: ll",
         "no_defs: defined",
         "",
         "Dataset PROJ_INFO is:",
         "name: WGS 84 / UTM zone 50N",
         "datum: wgs84",
         "ellps: wgs84",
         "proj: utm",
         "zone: 50",
         "no_defs: defined",
         "",
         "ERROR: proj",
         "",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "g.region",
       "parameter": [
         "align=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08_uncropped",
         "vector=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749",
         "-g"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05030989646911621,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "projection=3\nzone=0\nn=28.0118772817232\ns=27.0016255440191\nw=113.949598991944\ne=115.082625141434\nnsres=9.36719274644538e-05\newres=9.36694898718473e-05\nrows=10785\ncols=12096\ncells=130455360\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.mask",
       "parameter": [
         "vector=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 7.324517488479614,
       "stderr": [
         "Reading areas...",
         "0..100",
         "Writing raster map...",
         "0..3..6..9..12..15..18..21..24..27..30..33..36..39..42..45..48..51..54..57..60..63..66..69..72..75..78..81..84..87..90..93..96..99..100",
         "Reading areas...",
         "0..100",
         "Writing raster map...",
         "0..3..6..9..12..15..18..21..24..27..30..33..36..39..42..45..48..51..54..57..60..63..66..69..72..75..78..81..84..87..90..93..96..99..100",
         "Reading areas...",
         "0..100",
         "Writing raster map...",
         "0..3..6..9..12..15..18..21..24..27..30..33..36..39..42..45..48..51..54..57..60..63..66..69..72..75..78..81..84..87..90..93..96..99..100",
         "All subsequent raster operations will be limited to the MASK area. Removing or renaming raster map named 'MASK' will restore raster operations to normal.",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.mapcalc",
       "parameter": [
         "expression=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08 = float(S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08_uncropped)"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 12.890670776367188,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.timestamp",
       "parameter": [
         "map=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08",
         "date=06 dec 2016 03:07:49"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05022931098937988,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "g.remove",
       "parameter": [
         "type=raster",
         "name=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08_uncropped",
         "-f"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.050171613693237305,
       "stderr": [
         "Removing raster <S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08_uncropped>",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.mask",
       "parameter": [
         "-r"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.10028266906738281,
       "stderr": [
         "Raster MASK removed",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "g.rename",
       "parameter": [
         "raster=S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08,B08"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05016207695007324,
       "stderr": [
         "Rename raster <S2A_MSIL1C_20161206T030112_N0204_R032_T50RKR_20161206T030749_B08> to <B08>",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "g.region",
       "parameter": [
         "raster=B04",
         "-g"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 0.05024123191833496,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "projection=3\nzone=0\nn=28.0118772816667\ns=27.0016255438889\nw=113.949598991944\ne=115.082625141389\nnsres=9.36719274712822e-05\newres=9.36694898680925e-05\nrows=10785\ncols=12096\ncells=130455360\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.mapcalc",
       "parameter": [
         "expression=NDVI = float((B08 - B04)/(B08 + B04))"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 25.169322967529297,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.univar",
       "parameter": [
         "map=NDVI",
         "-g"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 4.662879705429077,
       "stderr": [
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": "n=125210913\nnull_cells=5244447\ncells=130455360\nmin=-0.96863466501236\nmax=0.80298912525177\nrange=1.77162379026413\nmean=0.345240281310971\nmean_of_abs=0.347942456759571\nstddev=0.135376600339386\nvariance=0.0183268239194499\ncoeff_var=39.2122842170458\nsum=43227850.8273235\n"
     },
     {
       "executable": "r.out.gdal",
       "parameter": [
         "-fm",
         "input=NDVI",
         "format=GTiff",
         "createopt=COMPRESS=LZW",
         "output=/home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/NDVI.tiff"
       ],
       "return_code": 0,
       "run_time": 12.83556079864502,
       "stderr": [
         "Checking GDAL data type and nodata value...",
         "2..5..8..11..14..17..20..23..26..29..32..35..38..41..44..47..50..53..56..59..62..65..68..71..74..77..80..83..86..89..92..95..98..100",
         "Using GDAL data type <Float32>",
         "Input raster map contains cells with NULL-value (no-data). The value -nan will be used to represent no-data values in the input map. You can specify a nodata value with the nodata option.",
         "Exporting raster data to GTiff format...",
         "ERROR 6: SetColorTable() only supported for Byte or UInt16 bands in TIFF format.",
         "2..5..8..11..14..17..20..23..26..29..32..35..38..41..44..47..50..53..56..59..62..65..68..71..74..77..80..83..86..89..92..95..98..100",
         "r.out.gdal complete. File </home/soeren/actinia/workspace/temp_db/gisdbase_d7f340e070934294bdd908be975953a5/.tmp/NDVI.tiff> created.",
         ""
       ],
       "stdout": ""
     }
   ],
   "process_results": {},
   "progress": {
     "num_of_steps": 30,
     "step": 30
   },
   "resource_id": "resource_id-60f3f012-4220-46ec-9110-694df49006c4",
   "status": "finished",
   "time_delta": 244.95086097717285,
   "timestamp": 1525288179.8238533,
   "urls": {
     "resources": [
       "http://actinia.mundialis.de/api/v3/resource/demouser/resource_id-60f3f012-4220-46ec-9110-694df49006c4/NDVI.tiff"
     ],
     "status": "http://actinia.mundialis.de/api/v3/resources/demouser/resource_id-60f3f012-4220-46ec-9110-694df49006c4"
   },
   "user_id": "demouser"
 }
```

**Footnotes**

[^1]: <https://grass.osgeo.org/grass-stable/manuals/index.html>

[^2]: <https://actinia.mundialis.de/api_docs/#/definitions/GrassModule>

[^3]: <https://actinia.mundialis.de/api_docs/#/definitions/InputParameter>

[^4]: <https://actinia.mundialis.de/api_docs/#/definitions/OutputParameter>

[^5]: <https://grass.osgeo.org/grass-stable/manuals/r.slope.aspect.html>

[^6]: <https://grass.osgeo.org/grass-stable/manuals/grass_database.html>

[^7]: <https://grass.osgeo.org/grass-stable/manuals/g.region.html>
